# Hybrid-Seq
Some docker files to facilitate the use of community hybrid-seq tools.

### Background
I trained as a postdoc in the [Kin Fai Au lab](https://www.healthcare.uiowa.edu/labs/au/) at the University of Iowa.

In the course of my research there I had the opportunity to work a the intersection of some of the newest sequencing technologies and their applications to RNA-seq. Illumina HiSeq technologies produce more than a hundred of million reads ~50-300bp in length. This technology produce superb low-error rate sequences of consistnat length. Many of the challenges in putting these reads to use have been conquered over the last decade, but one that remains is challenges in reconstructing isoform-level expression data.  These have to be modeled based on read quantities. New sequencing technologies such as PacBio SMRT Sequencing and Oxford Nanopore Sequencing can overcome this shortcoming by sequencing entire transcripts. A shortcoming to these "Third-Generation Sequencing (TGS) technologies is that they have a higher error rate than Illumina "Second-Generation Sequencing" (SGS).  This led to an initiative to polish TGS reads by correcting errors according to SGS reads. Combining these technologies is **Hybrid-Seq**.

Professor Au contributed to the Hybrid-Seq field by writing a software to tie together the isoform identification using TGS sequencing with accurate quantification using SGS sequencing in a software called IDP.  I had the opportunity to work with Prof. Au and Dr. Afshar on another tool called IDP-fusion.  This tool used Hybrid-Seq to improve the precision fusion gene/isoform detection in RNA-seq from cancers. *On a side-note the SGS tool TRUP [Genome Biology 2015](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-014-0558-0) had excellent performance for SGS only data, and I'd like to write more about it sometime.* Since I had a hand in developing these tools I still occasionally receive questions about them, so the purpose of this package is to provide some major help in setting up the pipelines to run these tools thanks to Docker.

Docker is going to be both a blessing and a curse to the bioinformatics community.  For ages many published softwares for niche areas of study have problems running in other researchers enviornments.  Docker provides a solution, because in theory if you can wrestle it into a Docker image, you should be all set to run it on any platform supporting docker.  And now, if you have any fairly new linux kernal (this excludes some SGE clusters out there), or a new mac os, ... or in theory windows server (which I don't have), you can run docker. This may end up being a bit of a curse because it may cause even more laziness in good coding practices, but since we already have that going on I think on the whole docker is going to be an enormous benefit to bioinformatics.  

To make some of the old tools in Hybrid-Seq that I've had a hand in working with, I'm going to make Dockerfiles and hopefully some use cases that should make these tools much more accessable. 
